In this session we will discuss the key
components that are common to every trading strategy, no matter how complex. I hope this foundation
will help guide you as you develop more advanced strategies
using machine learning techniques. By the end of the session, you will understand the different
types of entry and exit rules. You also know what type of market
data you need to develop strategies made up of endogenous and
exogenous trading rules. Lastly, you will construct a strategy
that incorporates these rules. To begin, let's talk about the entries and
exits of trading. We'll discuss entry signals and
exit signals. These are the key features that
define an algorithmic trading model. In the context of algorithmic trading, I think this is the most
important way to describe a model. In fact, you can summarize an algorithmic
trading model by describing its entry and exit signals. Algo traders are objective,
metric driven, and focused on dispassionate risk management. Discretionary traders on the other hand,
often bet huge sums on hunches, believes, intuition gut feelings or
opinions. Their strategies are subject to
shifts in attitudes, emotions, energy level and
are heavily skewed by recent memory. Decisions will be affected by their P&L,
month to month or year today, in an attempt to
end the year up in profits. Risk tolerance will change as they may
take greater risks to offset losses or to have one sizable trade
to make them profitable. The algorithmic trader avoids these
issues by being objective upfront, objectivity requires a rule for
trade entry. Overall, there can be two
types of entry rules. The first is an endogenous entry rule. This means your user rule based
purely on the security your trading. In this section, we are going to
explore the use of endogenous rules. When you only have access to price and
volume data on the asset your trading. An exogenous rules where you
are able to improve your trading performance with other data sources. For example, you might say buy
Apple if the price goes below 200, this rule requires you only
to watch Apple share price. Naturally, you will need to have
a real-time feed to observe the price of Apple's. When Apple trades below 200
you submit a buy order. You can stipulate more
complicated endogenous rules. For example,
buy Apple if the price hits a 10-day low. Again this rule requires you
only to watch Apple, but you also need to have an up-to-date
record of the 10-day low. Let's look at one more endogenous example. You may say buy Apple if the volume
exceeds the previous day's volume and the closing price is lower
than the daily average. You still only need to watch Apple, but you also need to monitor
both price and volume. The stocks volume is part
of its trading history. Essentially a stocks history
consists of price and volume traded. You can see in this graph that your
endogenous rule would cause you to buy Apple on November 20th,
when Apple closed at about $177. Apple subsequently traded is lowest $171,
before recovering to about 180. But what if you want to use other data? Then you would use an exogenous rule. An exogenous rule requires you
to watch not only Apple but other securities or data values as well. For example, you might say buy Apple
if Microsoft's price falls 5%. You may think the lower sales
at Microsoft computers may mean increased sales of Macs. Now you must also track
the price of Microsoft. Here's an exogenous rule
based on macro data. My Apple if the US
unemployment rate decreases. You see less unemployment
as a stronger economy, you believe this optimism can translate
into higher equity prices for Apple. Therefore you base your entry
signal on macro economic reports. These economic indicators get
announced at specific times, so it's easy for you to prepare for
such trades around events. Let's look at another
example of an exogenous rule, this time driven by fundamental data. Buy Apple if reported
quarterly sales increases or profit succeed analyst expectations. While this room may get
you in the market rate, you can see it involves
more than Apples price. Here you have to get Apple sales and
earnings data. This data is not part of Apple
stock history so it is exogenous. Let's try to understand
the difference between endogenous and exogenous to bit better. We'll start with endogenous. If you only use a stock price and
volume, you essentially believe that the data itself contains the information
for you to initiate a trade. You look for patterns using the prices and
volumes of the stock. Essentially you're looking for some type
of extrapolation of the historic data. That is you believe there is some structure to the data by
looking at the series itself. You may want to take a different approach. You may want to use other securities
like you did with Microsoft, this makes your model exogenous. You may want to use the company's
fundamental data, like sales and profitability. In that case you're saying that
exogenous variables help influence the future prices. It takes more than extrapolation, it requires a synthesis of
different types of data. Similarly, you may want
to use economic data. You can use the level of unemployment or
inflation, or consumer confidence, or any of the numerous economic
indicators that affect markets. We might also use more complicated
factors like monetary policy. For example, you predict that the
Federal Reserve will cut interest rates. Perhaps you want to buy
stocks particularly Apple, you can use geopolitical
predictions as well. For example, if you believe there will be a trade
war you want to sell stocks like Apple. You can get data from other markets. For example, if the options on
Apple show decrease volatility, you may want to buy Apple. The whole idea is that if
you use extra variables, there are a variety of ways you
can construct and specify rules. You use this approach if you have strong
beliefs that knowing these extra variables can give you better predictions
than the price and volume alone. This is where machine
learning helps tremendously. In the industry, we see that endogenous rules tend
to come from technical analysis. We have different names for
groups that tend to make exogenous rules. These are quantitative trading groups or
statistical arbitrage groups or simply strategists.