Now we are going to look at
how you can incorporate exit rules into some basic strategies. Now that you've initiated a trade,
you've done half the work. Now, you're ready for the second half. How do you exit the trade? We have three types of possible exits,
one, you make money. This is a profit exit. Two, you lose money. This is a stop-loss. Three, you run out of time. This is a time-out. Let's start by looking in
an example of a profit exit. Make 25 basis points, recall that
a hundred basis points equals 1%t. This means that you want to
make a 0.25% return. Suppose, you bought it 100. Your trading objective
is to sell at 100.25. Here's another example of a profit exit. I had 100, sell it at 103 for a 3% profit. You make 300 basis points. Certainly, you're more excited
about making $3 per share and just 25 cents per share. However, you also realize this rule has a
harder time of getting done if the market starts to move in the other direction. In the example shown of buying Apple
at 203.88 and selling it at 210. You would have to wait almost
two weeks to exit your trade. You set your profit exit at
a level where two things happen. First, you cover all market
costs such as bid-ask spread, any brokerage commissions and
exchange fees. Second, you can capture
a desired level of profit. This level comes from the difference
between the entry and exit points less market cost. Your goal is to get profited out and earn at least your required
return on trading capital. Your worst outcome is getting stopped out. Suppose you got the direction wrong,
the market moves against you? You want to exit the trade with
as little pain as possible. Here's an example of a stop loss. Close the position,
you're down 150 basis points. Getting in in 100,
you would get stopped out at 98.50. When you're profited out you make money,
when you're stoppe out you lose money. You can also get timed out. This means you ran out of time. Suppose you're only allowed
to hold the trade intraday. That means that you have to close
your position by the end of the day. If prices do not move too much,
you get stuck near your entry signal, you get timed out when you hit neither
the profit exit or the stop-loss. We'll continue our discussion of these
stop losses in the next session.