Now that you have a
good understanding of entries and exits and
trading strategies, we're going to focus on one very important
exit, the stop loss. This is probably the
least popular feature of a trading strategy but it is vital to managing P and L and to surviving in
the trading world. We will look at the main types of stop losses and
discuss the use of static and dynamic stop losses to help manage trading risk. We will also look at how to structure stop loss is based on your trading view and changes in market
prices and volatility. First, we're going to explore different types of stop losses. In the previous section, we described the four parameters associated with the
trading rule or model. There is the entry signal
where you initiate a trade, the profit exit, the stop
loss, and the timeout. Some traders do not
care about timeouts. They will simply hold on until either the
trade is profitably exhibited or incurs
a loss against them. Almost all traders
have a stop loss. If they don't choose one, their risk management
may choose it for them. Stop losses serve one purpose, they reduce your risk. Suppose you have no stop loss, your trade can go into free fall. Consider if a stock
is falling because there was a fraud
associated with a company. If you are still bullish, you could keep your position. However, you may
regret not taking a small loss compared to a much bigger one at
prices continue to fall. The graph shows Steinhoff
a consumer goods company that reported
irregularities in their accounting. On December fifth, 2017, their stock dropped
63 percent and since declined further to
where it is worth less than 10 percent of its
value on December fourth. So when you're trade
doesn't go as planned, how do you decide where to exit? Well, there are two
types of stop losses. The first is static, the second is dynamic. You can set a
stop-loss statically based on where you
enter the trait. Suppose you enter at 200. If you can tolerate
a 2.5 percent loss, then your stop loss
should be at 195. If you can only tolerate
a 1.5 percent loss, your stop loss should be at 197. If you were very risk averse, you might only tolerate
it one percent loss, then your stop loss would be 198. Ideally you want to stop out where the losses within
your risk tolerance. To do so, you may place a stop loss order
with your broker. Suppose you place a
stop loss order 195. Then if the stock trades
at or below that price, your broker enters a market order to sell and you exit your trade. This helps to limit your loss. Suppose your trade goes
against you right away. You may hit the
stop loss quickly. If the stop loss is
too conservative, whereas traders say too tight, you may hit it based on
noise in the market. Picking a good stop
loss is a trade off. You want to stop loss it is
not so tight that it will be triggered often with
slight market movements. You also want to stop
loss that is not so loose that will cause you
to take a large loss. But what if the trade
moves in your favor? Suppose you have an
ambitious aggregate signal of 250 basis points. The stock moves to 203. Do you still want to keep
your stop loss at 195? If the stock has
lots of volatility is possible it will drop down. Is there some way you can take advantage of the paper
profit you've achieved. That is your unrealized
profit of about three dollar. Rather than set the
stop-loss statically, you set it dynamically. That is you can set
the stop loss to be 2.5 percent below
the current price. So if Apple reaches 203, your new stop losses at 198. This means that you would no
longer lose 2.5 percent from your entry level but rather from your highest
unrealized profit. Your dynamic stop
loss is three dollar more than your original
static stop loss. You do this because you've
made unrealized profits. You want to increase the
chances of keeping them. Now if the trade continues
to move in your favor, you may simply get profited out. But if the trade
moves against you, you will only stand to lose
two dollar or one percent. So the first type of dynamic
stop loss is where you raise the stop loss so it
trails the high price. Rather than the entry price. However, you can add another dynamic element
to the stop loss. Not only can you increase the
stop loss to fall the high, you can also change
the percentage. In the earlier example, you kept the stop
loss at 2.5 percent. But suppose you make 1.5
percent with Apple at about 203 and your
target is still 204. You may want to keep some
of that capital gain. Therefore, you can
lower the percentage, rather than use 2.5 percent, you may use 1.5 percent. Now your stop loss
is about 200 dollar. This is the level where
you entered the trade. Now you exit the
trade without a loss. What type of stop
loss should you use? Whatever you decide,
you should have evidence to support its use. Recall that we have four
parameters to describe a model. You can back test the model
with a static stop loss. You can back test and model
with our dynamic stop loss. You can even back test with a
variable dynamic stop loss. Hope you get much
better results using one type of stop loss as
opposed to the others, then it will be clear which
stop loss you should use. If you decide to use a
variable percentage you can base a percentage on back tests with market price
and volume data.