In the previous session, we looked at how to use statistical techniques
to identify pairs. The rationale was that this is the first step to form groups. Rather than identify the
groups qualitatively, you can use machine
learning algorithms to identify the groups
quantitatively. We will examine what
the loadings for the first two principal
components represent. We will then use those
loadings to identify two stocks that would have good potential and
a pair to trade. Lastly, we will determine
the weightings of each stock in the pair based
on their respective Betas. To start, we will examine what the loadings for the first two principal
components represent. In the previous session, we discussed how to use statistical techniques
to identify pairs. The rationale was this is the
first step to form groups. Rather than identify the
groups qualitatively, you can use machine learning algorithms to identify the
groups quantitatively. The first procedure we ran
was hierarchical clustering. This statistical technique uses a distance matrix to form groups. Stocks that were similar to
each other form the cluster. Stocks that behave differently, appear in different clusters. The second procedure we ran was a principal
components analysis. This statistical technique
use the correlation matrix. It identify the components that prioritize how the variance
is orthogonally distributed. In other words, you can look at the first component as
explaining the largest amount of variation and the
second component as explaining the second
largest amount of variation. Also, you have to
keep in mind that all components are
uncorrelated to each other. Therefore, each source of variation is independent
of the others. Let's look at how the
data get rotated. This is known as the loadings. Here's a graph of the
loadings of component 1. What are loadings? Remember that the principal components
analysis is a rotation. In order to rotate from
one matrix to another, you have to multiply
the original matrix by a transformation matrix. The loadings above are the
transformation matrix. You study the loadings of
principal components analysis, you use this matrix to
tell you how to get from the original data to
the transformed data. You can produce a loadings for each of the original
data dimensions. In our example, you can produce a whopping 68 loading plots. Not all of them are
equally important. You want to focus
on those that have significant amounts and
types of variation. Therefore, whenever you
look at a loading plot, you should focus on the size
and the sign of the values. Let's examine what
makes a loadings plot. You see each technology
company along the X-axis. You see each company's
weight along the Y-axis. The companies have
been ordered so that the largest
weights appear first. Notice that all weights
have the same sign. This will be true
for component 1. This is a weighted average. Some companies are
weighted more heavily, AMD and NVDA, and some are
much less weighted, CTXS. Recall from the scree
plot that this component explains 50.2 percent
of the variation. Not bad for a single factor
and a 68 dimensions of space. We might ask, what
factor one describes? In theory, it should
be the stocks Beta. If the capital asset pricing
model worked perfectly, component 1 should have weights in proportion to the stocks Beta. It should also explain 100 percent of the
variation of the data. However, the CAP end
does not work perfectly. Despite this, this
first component is still directly related
to stock Betas. Note that AMD has
the highest weight. It also has a high
Beta of over three. Generally, as you proceed to the right, the weights decrease. Typically, the Betas
decrease as well. Now we will look at using the first two PCA
component loadings to select a stock pair. Consider two companies with
equal weights in component 1. Like KLAC and ADSK. KLA corporation supplies
process control and yield management systems for the semiconductor and
nanoelectronic industries. ADSK or Autodesk, makes
software for the manufacturing, media, architecture, engineering, and
construction industries. Their equal loadings in
component 1 tell you that for 50 percent of the historical
variation in the data, these companies move with
the same direction and size. Will these companies
always move together? No. You would have to look at higher number components
to determine how the rest of the variation
is accounted for. Here's a plot of the loadings
for the second component. Just to review, on the X-axis, you label each
technology company, on the Y-axis, you list each company's weight in
the second component. Unlike the first component, notice that the
second component has both positive and
negative loadings. This component accounts for 6.6 percent of the total
variation in the data. Recall that the scree plot showed the cumulative variation
explained by the components. The first two
components account for about 57 percent of
the total variation. In this component, some
of the loadings are highly positive such as Adobe. Some are very
negative such as WDC, and some are unaffected
such as DXC. Recall your pair of KLAC
and ADSK from component 1. In that variation, the stocks
behave very much the same. In component 2, you get
a different picture. KLAC has a negative loading
of about minus 10.3 percent, ADSK has a positive loading
of about 10.5 percent. This tells you two things. In component 1, their
weights were almost equal. In this first source
of variation, KLAC and ADSK move in
similar directions. You get a different story
from the second component. KLAC has the same size but
opposite sign weight as ADSK. So will KLAC and ADSK be a good pair to trade
under component 1? They will not be. They will move in
the same direction. Under component 2, they would be. They would move in
opposite directions. Two stocks may not always be a good pair under all
market conditions, but if you have anticipated volatility in the market
explained by component 2, then your KLAC-ADSK
pair would make sense. Now let's set up a pair straight. You can use KLAC and ADSK. KLAC has a Beta of 1.56, ADSK has a Beta of 1.41. KLAC trades around
$170 per share, ADSK trades around
$145 per share. Suppose you purchase
1,000 shares of KLAC. This has a market
value of 170,000. How many shares of
ADSK do you need? Reorganizing your equation to solve for market value of ADSK, you need $188,085 worth of ADSK. At a share price of $145, you would need about
1,297 shares of ADSK. Rounding will trade 1,300
shares of ADSK. Let's review. Our equation gives us a
Beta weighted market value of $265,200 for KLAC, and $265,785 for ADSK. So if you were long one of these positions and
short the other, you have achieved
Beta neutrality. If the market goes up, you gain on your long position
and lose on your short. If the Betas hold, you
should break-even. Likewise, if the
market goes down, you lose on your long but
you gain on your short. Here, you break-even again. Our strategy is our performance. You want your long side to do better than your short side, or you want your short side to drop more than your long side. Typically, the hardest part of the strategy is knowing
when to get in. How do you define
your entry signal?