In this session, you will evaluate
the results of a pair strategy. You will construct a trade blotter,
quantify and implement a trading rule, and use six performance metrics
to evaluate your trade. Based on your rules,
you would have traded various pairs. You need to create a trade
blotter to record all of it. You record the pair you trade,
the direction of the trade, the entry date, the entry-level,
the exit level. And the exit category, whether it was
profitably exited or stopped out. Now we will focus on quantifying and
implementing a trading rule. In the previous section we discussed
the idea of using principal components to determine suitable pairs. You might have a trading rule that uses
the second principal component to form viable pairs for trading. That means on a given day, you will have
a pair of stocks like KLAC and ADSK. However, if you update
the principal components, you may find a different pair to trade. As you use the different amounts or periods of history,
you get different data sets. When you compute the principal
components on these data sets, you get different results. Suppose you want to place
a mean reverting trade. Suppose KLAC and ADSK move apart
a certain amount, say more than $30. Your proposed model says that you should
sell short stock that is done better, and buy the stock that is done poorly. If the spread narrows, then cover
the short and sell the long position. Let's quantify your trading rule. Typically, you will have an entry signal,
a profit target and a stop loss. If the price spread between KLAC and ADSK
is greater than $30, you enter the trade. Your profit target is when
the price spread between KLAC and ADSK is less than $25. Your stop loss is when the price spread
between KLAC and ADSK exceeds $35. Your timeout will be one month
when you enter the trade. Now we will focus on back testing and evaluating the performance
of your trading rule. You would now proceed to
observe historical data and apply these trading rules. Doing so will produce a trade blotter, adjusting the rules will produce
a different trade blotter. How do you measure a performance? We should be able to quantify
this very objectively. Now we are going to look at six
key measures of profitability and risk of your trading rule. First you have your percentage of wins. When you hit your target,
you consider that a win. When you hit your stop-loss,
you consider that a loss. Many traders want rules that have 75% or 80% win ratio to put the odds
comfortably in their favor. Trades are rarely break even
because of fixed cost and market impact costs such
as the bid-ask spread. Second, you should calculate
your total return. You invested in amount of
money on the long side. On the short side, ironically you don't need funds up
front because you borrow the stock. You should look at how much
money was put into the trade and how much came out, net of cost. Third, you have your average win and loss amounts, even a trade that is more
likely to win can be unprofitable. If you only expect to make a dollar but lose $10, you can win a majority of
the trades but still lose money. These average wins and losses take both
the long and the short side into account. You don't need to detail
which side made or lost money as the goal is out performance. If the long side has a larger gain or
the short side has a greater loss, your trade has out performed. Fourth, you have your extreme win and
loss amounts. The extreme is a single
statistic to be sure, but you want to ensure that the results
are not skewed such that one extreme result accounts for most of
the expected sizes of wins and losses. Fifth, you compute
the variance of your returns. Here is where volatility comes in. If the returns are wildly different,
you have uncertain outcomes. You have to wonder if you're just lucky or if you're really skilled
at picking stocks. Information ratios are used by traders and
investors to gauge whether a strategy or manager is skillful or just lucky. It adjust the alpha of a strategy for
the volatility of the strategy's return. Six, you draw a graph that
indicates the portfolio value. Every completed trade will add or
subtract to your portfolio. Ideally this line will increase
over time and be fairly constant. You can quantify it by taking
the correlation between your market value graph and
a linear trend of the market value graph. Ideally you would like a trading
rule that makes money quickly and steadily that is you don't lose money. In reality you'd be happy to use
a trading rule that makes money steadily. If the P&L line oscillates wildly,
then you may be unlucky or enter trades that lose
you quite a bit of money. Ideally, this line would be very smooth. If you have various trading strategies, you can take the second derivative
of this portfolio value. Then you can compute in
discrete-time the second derivative. Then you integrate, you would prefer a line whose integrated
second derivative is at a minimum. Here you are essentially penalizing for
bumpiness.