Momentum trading is a strategy
in which traders buy or sell assets according to the strength of
recent price trends. Price momentum is
similar to momentum in physics were
mass multiplied by velocity determines
the persistence with which an object will
follow its current path, like a heavy train on a track. In financial markets, however, momentum is determined
by other factors like trading volume and
rate of price changes. Momentum traders bet
than an asset price that is moving strongly
in a given direction will continue to move
in that direction until this trend loses
strength or reverses. In this session, we will
discuss how to identify momentum as a feature
of a trading strategy. We will then look at the use of metrics such as moving
averages and moving average ribbons to determine trade entries and exits
in a momentum strategy. Last, we will evaluate
the effectiveness of these metrics in generating
trading profits. Creating features or feature
engineering is one of the most important
steps in using machine learning to develop a
quantitative strategy. Before you create
features you need to know what features you expect to use. Since we are dealing with
momentum strategies here, let's understand a bit
more about momentum. Our first step is
to establish that a tradable momentum trend
exists for an asset. You've probably heard before
that a stock has momentum, but what do we mean by momentum? Momentum is a phase in which an asset appears to
be moving based on past changes in
prices rather than due to any stock specific
fundamental or news. When prices move
higher in reaction to higher prices is known
as a Bull phase, and when prices move lower
just because they'd been going lower it's known
as a Bear phase. A momentum run is clearly seen with the candlestick charts where green represent up days and red
represents down days. On the chart you can
see that up appears to be in a bowl momentum phase for a few months in 2014 and is hugging what is
known as a trend line. A trend line is a straight
line that connects two or more points which can
be temporary highs or lows, since stock prices
tend to be trendy. Trend lines that connect the highest or lows in a
stock's price history, can help identify
the current trend and predict what the stock
price might do in the future. Volume is critical to
confirming momentum trends. How do you detect a trend? Most discretionary traders say they know a trend
when they see it. Quantitative traders
need a measure that is more objective but
still versatile. They use moving averages to clearly see stock price trends that may not be apparent
in a forest of price bars. The slope of a moving average's line can show
you whether a stock is an upward or downward trend and can be used to
generate trading signals. You'll see how to construct
moving averages next. Momentum traders use moving
or rolling averages to identify trends and specified trade entry and exit parameters. You saw earlier that a trend line is a
good way to look at whether a stock is in a
sustain momentum phase, either a Bull or Bear phase. The key word here is sustained. Trends don't tell us
whether the trend will continue or will break abruptly. This is where moving averages
and crossovers come in. Let's add some moving
averages and look at the 2014-15 period when the stock was in a
Bull momentum phase. We'll demonstrate this on the
same chart you saw earlier, but with some added lines. The slope of the moving
average line shows whether the stock is in an
upward or downward trend. A simple moving average is just the average of the close price over
a specified period. A 50-day simple moving
average is the sum of all the closing prices in the 50-day period divided by 50. You can see this on the plot
where the green line begins 50 days after the first
price data point, and exponentially weighted moving average works the same as
a simple moving average except the most recent
prices are given more weight in the average
than the older prices. This gives you an indicator
that more closely reflects current market conditions while still including earlier data. A very common way
to obtain a buy or sell signal is to look for moving average crossovers
in stock charts. This means computing
two moving averages of different lengths and waiting for one to cross over the other. The direction of the cross will indicate the direction
of the momentum. At least that's what
technical traders believe. Volume is once again a critical component
in determining whether the crossover is a real
change in trend or temporary. A Bear cross is when the shorter
moving average moves below the longer moving average, and a Bull cross is when the shorter
moving average moves above a longer moving average. Traders take a long position
after a Bull cross and a short position in a
stock after a Bear cross. They hold that position
while the cross is in place. They switch positions
when the bowl cross moves into a Bear
cross or vice versa. We can see here that there are four points where the
averages cross each other. Assume you are currently
long the stock, the first two crossings come
close to each other and indicate a quick sell
and then buy back phase, but the second two crossings
predict a longer up face. This can be one way to make profits using moving
average crossovers. However, since most traders are watching the same signals, there is no guarantee these
will work in the real world. For that you will need to develop more complex trading
strategies based on more unconventional
trading signals. Next let's look at how
you choose the size of your moving average
window or length. Choosing moving average
length is very complicated. There are many choices of
lengths such as 20,30, 50, 65, 200 et cetera. In fact, any integer
is a possible choice. So the tendency is to look
at the chart and find the two moving averages that seem to fit the
given chart nicely, and then use that as a
trading strategy for all stocks or even for the same stock in a
future time period. This is known as
over-fitting and you need to be aware of the danger
of over-fitting. What works in one time period may not work in
another time period, even for the same stock. The reason is the choice of
lengths will strongly affect the signal you receive from your moving average
crossover strategy. There may be better windows and you can attempt to find them with robust optimization
techniques. However, it's incredibly easy to over-fit your moving
window lengths. One approach is to use moving
average crossover ribbons, withdraw many moving
averages at the same time, an attempt to extract
statistics from the shape of the ribbon rather than
any two moving averages. You can see how
ribbons look here. You can combine
quantitative measures of ribbon shape and so
generate a trading signal. Last we will look at two methods for evaluating or scoring the strength of a
combination of moving average signals with
different window lengths. The first is a distance metric and the second is correlation. One way of scoring is to
use a distance metric. You can use a distance
metric to see how far away from some given
ranking our ribbon is. Here we combine ribbons to
come up with a one to 10 ranking which we normalized
to a score of zero to one. A perfectly increasing order of ribbons results in
a score of zero. This can be a signal
to buy or go long. A perfectly decreasing order of ribbons results
in a score of one, this can be a signal
to sell or go short. After ranking the rolling means and normalizing the scores, we plot them on the price chart. We see a number of strong
cell signals followed by a weak buy signal another strong sell signal and then
a weak buy signal. Next we will look at what happens after the final buy signal. When we look at
what happens after the buy signal from
the previous chart. We see that the stock price rises for bit and then drops by about 20-30 percent over the
next few months, not good. So you have to constantly be on the lookout for better signals. Another slightly better way maybe to use correlation
to rank ribbons. You can use a correlation metric, a perfectly increasing order of ribbons results in
a score of one, this can be a signal
to buy or go long. A perfectly decreasing order of ribbons results in a
score of negative one, this can be a signal
to sell or go short. First, we rank the ribbons using a Spearman's correlation and normalize the score once again. A score close to one
means a buy signal and a score close to negative
one is a sell signal. This is somewhat better
since it triggered three sell signals pretty close to the short-term
top of the stock. This may be worth
exploring some more.