Step 2, collect reliable data, collecting cleaning data that helps
you solve the problem at hand. Now that you have defined the problem in
step 1, you need to collect some data. This is where your market
data provider comes in. This can be Bloomberg, Reuters,
Moody's, BlackRock, or any of the hundreds of market
data providers out there. In addition to collecting
voluminous amounts of data, you also need to check if the data
you're getting is accurate. You also have a check if it is adjusted
for dividends, stock splits, rolls, etc. Another very important check is alignment. This means time alignment. Let's say you collect data
to predict stock prices. And one of the columns
is earning per share. If you have a series of EPS for each
time point in your data and a column for a stock price at each point, you have
to make sure that the EPS that is known at that point in time for the stock is
what is really known at that point. In some cases the EPS for
a start maybe 30 days, 60 days, or even 90 days behind the stock price for
particular earning season. So make sure you don't
miss this time alignment. If you get this wrong, you may very
well have a well performing model during training, but
it may be completely wrong during testing. So keep this in mind while aligning
features with your target variable. Nowadays, in the hunt for alpha or
the exist return over a market return, many traders and portfolio managers are in
search of what's called alternative data. This could be any of the following. A credit card transactions, email
receipts, point-of-sale transactions, website usage, obscure city hall records,
satellite images, social media posts, online browsing
activity, shipping container receipts, product reviews, some or
all of these may be useful. But again, the same caveats
around time alignment of ply. If you don't align the date that
the alternate piece of data was available with the date of of the target variable, you are likely to have a very
messed up data for training. So be careful. I can't stress it enough.