Hi, I'm Jack. One of the course creators and
also an experienced trader now working with the New
York Institute of Finance. Welcome to this course
series all about machine learning and
trading using Google Cloud. In the first course, we covered the functionality of Google Cloud and
Jupyter Notebooks, along with introducing basic quantitative
trading strategies, supervised learning, neural
networks, and deep learning. In this course, we'll explore
more advanced concepts and trading such as momentum and
pair trading strategies. You'll also learn how to
write low level programs in TensorFlow and use Keras
to train neural networks. In course number 3, you'll deepen your
understanding of advanced machine
learning approaches such as reinforcement learning, which has unique
advantages when used as the foundation for a
quant trading system. Machine learning for
trading is a broad topic, so let's first be clear about who can benefit from
this course content. This course was created
in partnership between the New York Institute of
Finance and Google Cloud. It's a combination of machine learning theory
specific to finance and trading and the
practical application of that theory using Google
Cloud as a platform. Before you take this course, it's recommended that
you have already taken a foundational machine
learning course, so you'll be familiar
with the concepts discussed like
feature engineering, training, serving
splits, and more. I'll provide links in
the course resources of courses and reading materials for you to get
caught up to speed. The audience that will get the
most out of this series of courses are data analysts,
data scientists, and data engineers who
are looking to apply their ML knowledge to the finance domain,
specifically trading. We'll cover and quiz you on core trading concepts like fundamental versus
technical trading, as well as quant theory. Portfolio managers and traders can also use his
course to learn how machine learning
techniques can be applied to investment
in trading decisions. Lastly, while you won't
leave this course building the next high-frequency
trading model for Nasdaq 100 futures, you'll leave with a better understanding of
how you can apply financial trading concepts in theory using the latest
in Cloud technology. Now let's cover the
specific module content that you'll learn in this course. There five modules. Module 1, quant
trading strategies. Two, introduction to TensorFlow. Three, training neural networks with TensorFlow and Keras. Four, building a momentum base trading
strategy and lastly, in five, you'll build a pair trading strategy
prediction model. A lot of learners asks what they're expected to
code is part of this course. While there are eight interactive IPython Notebook based labs for this course, you'll develop your
skills with TensorFlow and Keras in the
four lab shown here. One, writing low-level
TensorFlow programs. Two, manipulating data with
TensorFlow dataset API. Three, introduction to
Keras sequential API, and for, intro to
Keras functional API. You'll also develop
basic momentum and pair trading strategies
in this three labs. Momentum trading, pairs
trading, and Kalman filters. We're also making available an optional lab
where you can try to improve your momentum strategies using Hurst coefficients. You'll then have the option to take additional momentum labs using ML in the QuantQuest
platform from Aquant. Through our partnership
with Google Cloud, each of your labs would be using a real Google Cloud account at no additional cost and compute resources to train
and run your models. If you've used Qwiklabs before, you've seen the lab
environment shown here. You'll be given a certain
amount of time to use the project resources
before they expire and you'll follow along with
the lab instructions in the Qwiklab while doing the actual work in
your provided account. Since most of these labs
are machine learning-based, you can expect to see
IPython Notebooks like this one that you'll be
reading through and executing. If you're unfamiliar
with IPython Notebooks, check the course resources
for a quick primer or look at the lab
solutions where we go through all the lab steps. One key point to note here is that all of these
notebooks are available publicly in our course
repository linked here and in the course resources. That means even after
this course ends, you can still bookmark and
refer back to the code for this course and
future courses. Just as is critical, go over what exactly
this course covers is equally important to talk about what we're
not going to cover. Machine learning trading and Google Cloud are three
very broad topics, and this series of courses
navigates their intersection. Naturally, we can't
be everything for all audience who will
provide links for newer data scientists
to get up to speed and advanced challenges for gurus
to show off their skills. Specifically, what you won't
see here are building and implementing the next highly profitable high-frequency
pair trading algorithm. At the core of highly
profitable models is likely a series
of very private and expensive to collect training datasets that
feed into multiple models. This course will teach you the core trading concepts
used in professional models, but it's up to you to beat everyone else in the market and build a better model of
reality for a given stock. With that same topic, the more advanced machine
learning topics such as LSTMs and reinforcement
learning models are covered in course number 3. If you already have a
deep understanding of ML, you may want to focus on learning the new trading concepts
in this course and experiment in the labs
and how you can beat the benchmark given
your ML knowledge. Lastly, if you're new to
machine learning in Python, we won't cover basic
intro concepts like what is a feature of model input as there's
a wide universe of great generic ML
content out there online. Check the course
resources for examples, and then come back here
when you want to apply that theory to
trading. What's next? In the next course; Reinforcement Learning
for Trading Strategies, you'll dive into building models with TensorFlow and Keras. One of the specific
model types is LSTM or long short-term memory models for better time
series prediction. We'll then look at how reinforcement learning
techniques can be used to develop a nearly
autonomous trading system. Don't forget to review
the course resources to access and download the slides for the modules you've
just completed, and we'll see you
in the next course.