Hello and welcome. I'm Philip Maier a course developer
with Google Cloud platform. And this is a brief tutorial on
using Qwiklabs in this course. I'm about to show you the interactive
Hands-On Labs platform called Qwiklabs, which is part of Google Cloud. Qwiklabs allows you to get practical
hands-on experience with GCP and provisions you with Google
account credentials, so you can access the GCP console at no cost. The first step is to log into
Coursera in an incognito window. Depending on your browser, it may also be called private browsing or
in private browsing. Locking in to a Coursera from a private
window ensures that you don't accidentally use your own Google account while
accessing the Google Cloud console. We don't want you to get any unexpected
bills at the end of the month. Check out the links below this video for
different browsers support articles. Once logged into Coursera
using an incognito window, return to your course and
go to the lab activity page. So if prompted you want to
accept the honor code and you might even have to enter your name. Then you want to click the open tool
button to open the lab in a new tab. So within the new tab you
can now click Start lab and you want to wait until
the lab running is displayed. For each lab, you will have a timer in the
top right with the remaining access time, your lab will automatically
end when the timer runs out. On the left,
you have the connections detail. Click open Google console and
then sign in with the username and password provided in
the connections detail pane. So I'm going to copy the username. Paste that in here. I'm also going to take the password. Paste it in here, too. Now Qwiklabs creates a new account for
you each time you launch a lab. Therefore you need to click through
the initial account setup windows. So essentially I need to accept this. I don't need to add any recovery phone
number so I can just click done. I'm going to agree to the terms and
services and I don't need any emails. Now I can verify that I'm using
the Qwiklabs provided account and project within the GCP console. So up here I see the project ID. And over here I can see the username. And these are the same ones that I was provided with in
the connections these all pane. You can also see that
the timer is still running. Now some Labs track your work within
the Qwiklabs provided GCP project. If it is enabled you will see
a score in the top right corner of the Crickets window as
you can see right here. Your score increases as
objectives are met and you can click on the score to view
the individual steps to be scored. Now that I've completed the lab I
can see my score has been updated. And I'm ready to click end lab. Once I click end lab,
the Qwiklabs provided project and any resources within that
project will be deleted. I can close the Qwiklabs lab page and my grade will be updated with
my lab score in Coursera. That's it for this tutorial. Remember to launch Coursera
in an incognito window and use the Qwiklabs provided credentials
to sign into the GCP console. Good luck with the labs and
enjoy the rest of this course.