In the previous lesson, you learned how to
back test your model. In this section, we will list some qualitative ways
to improve your model. Some of these ways will involve adjusting for
external factors and understanding how this impacts the profitability of your traits. We will identify external factors that can affect stock prices and help you understand
how each type of factor effects trade
profitability. This will help you include external factors in your models. We will look at a range of
external factors and events including time and day of week, related markets, economic events, and update to market indices. To start, let's look at time
and day specific effects. The first thing you look at our at the time of day effects. Do you tend to make
profits only in the first hour of the
stock market is open? Do you tend to have
profitable trades only in the last 30 minutes
the market is open? Is there a great proportion of daily volume that trades
at the open and close? You may realize that
your model may not work the rest of the day when
trading may be lighter. You should produce a graph
that illustrates all of your profitable trades broken down by the hour of the day. If you see any differences
from one plot to another, then you can qualitatively
state that there is a time of day effect in place. Knowing this, you may choose to filter your data so that you only back-test on those points at the most profitable
times of the day. In other words, you
avoid trying to force a one size fits all model. That means that you may back-test parameters for certain
parts of the day only. For other parts, you
may choose not to run a model or perhaps you
back-test that part separately. This is the main idea behind most of the suggestions
that will fall. When you understand the
details of your profits you can understand when and
how your model works. Next, you can examine
day of the week effects. In many stocks, there
may be higher volume or higher volatility on some
weekdays and others. That means you may be
more likely to trade if you're models require
some amount of volatility. Perhaps you choose not to use certain weekdays which have
historically low volatility. The prices and returns of the stocks in your
pair can also be affected by trading and related markets such
as derivatives. For example, let's
consider options markets. Once a month typically
on the third Friday of the month the options
on equities expire. Is there more volatility
on the day options expire? In an annual back-test, there would be 12 such days. Do we detect any difference
between trades occurring on option expiration days versus trades taken from other days? Some traders decide not to trade these days due to higher
volatility in the markets. Other traders may make their living just trading
around these days. Next, we'll look at how
the periodic release of macroeconomic and
company-specific information can affect your trading. You can examine economic events. In our first lesson, you learned that economic
events could be part of the rules that help us
to initiate a trait. Likewise, when you examine your results just
to see if they are influenced in any way by
key economic reports. If you decide to trade when an unemployment
number is released, you may be in for a surprise. Markets can move very rapidly
in the minutes leading up to and immediately following such an important
economic indicator. Any report that has a
surprise element can create a frenzy trading
environment that can push an otherwise successful strategy right to its stop-loss level. You also need to anticipate quarterly earnings announcements. Earnings announcement
usually have a much bigger impact on the effective stock's price
than announcements of general economic indicators
trading volume and volatility are much higher before and after announcements, as traders and asset managers reposition
their portfolios. If you decide to carry a position through
an announcement, you must make sure that
your stop loss orders anticipate potentially
much higher volatility. Updates to market indices can
affect your trade if one of the stocks in your pair is added or dropped
from a market index. A market index comprises companies that meet
certain criteria. Periodically, these
criteria upgrade certain companies to
be added to the index. Also you'll see that
certain companies are deleted from the index. This can have an effect
on their stock price. Imagine a fund manager
hasn't investment mandate to track that index. If the stock is no longer in the index the fund manager is likely going to
sell that stock. The combined effect of this route the market
can be enormous. Deleted stocks from indices tend to have big drops in price. We've identified some
events that are periodic, like the hour of the day, day of the week monthly economic indicators and quarterly
earnings announcements. We've also identified
less frequent events like index additions
and deletions. The important point is the
same for both types of events. You need to understand if and how your trading results will be
influenced by these events.