In this session,
we introduced pairs trading. We will discuss what pairs trading is and
how you can make money doing it. We will discuss what you need to know
about the members to form a suitable pair. We will look at the advantages
of trading a pair of stocks or other assets as opposed to
trading a single stock. We will also explore a number of
scenarios under which a pair trade can be profitable. Lastly, we will construct
a beta hedge pair trade. First, we're going to look at some of the
benefits of trading two stocks together. When you trade one stock,
you are betting on the direction. Suppose you are bullish on Apple. You buy Apple,
you expect the price to increase. It does. You sell it at a higher price,
you were able to buy low and sell high. As long as you cover costs,
this trade makes you money. To illustrate, let's pick
a company on which we are bearish. We choose Microsoft. To review, selling short means
selling something you don't know. First, you have to borrow the stock
from someone who owns it or has the right to lend it. You may have to put up collateral and
pay them a borrowing fee. You do this because you
expect the price to decrease. In your hypothetical scenario, it does. Then you buy it back at a lower price. This is called covering a short,
you sold high and then you bought low. We have the same story as before but
in reverse. Again, as long as you cover costs, including the cost of borrowing,
the trade makes money. Suppose you're bullish on one stock and bearish on another, you think Apple will
increase and Microsoft will decrease. Is there a way you can trade
the combination of these two securities as a package? There is. This is pairs trading. Pairs trading involves the combination
of buying a security long and selling a security short. Again, this is because you have two
different views on the companies. In the best circumstances, you think
that the security buy will increase and at the same time you think that
the security you sell will decrease. However you don't have to be 100% correct. Both companies can increase and
you can still make money. How? As long as the company you buy
outperforms the company you short, you will make money. If you're long security increases in price
more than the short security increases in price, you have made a profitable trade. So you can think of pairs trade
as a bet on out performance. In fact, you can even make money
if both companies do worse. If you're long security goes down
in price but you're short security decreases in price even more,
then you also have a profitable trade. In this example,
your long security appreciates and your short security depreciates. Here both sides are profitable. Your long Apple makes $1.21 and you're short Microsoft makes 3.83 for
a total profit of 5.04. This is your optimal outcome. In this example your long security
appreciates more than your short security appreciates. Your long Apple produces a profit
of 3.64 and your short Microsoft produces a loss of 2.21 for
an overall profit of 1.43. Not great but still better than
your trade going the wrong way and hitting your stock loss. Suppose for example,
you have a market correction. Equities fall 10%. To be sure you lose money
on your long security, fortunately you make money
on your short security. Can you wait your long and
short positions so that these gains and losses offset each other? You absolutely can. You have to wait for
the position sizes appropriately. The best you can do is
bait await the positions. Suppose you enter a pairs trade
with Apple and Microsoft. Each stock has a beta. As you recall from your previous
studies or work experience, beta measures a stock's covariance with
the market per unit of Market risk,. If the stock's beta is 1.1, then it has a 10% more systematic
volatility than the overall market. If you were trading large cap stocks,
you can use the S and P 500 to measure the overall market. If the market we're up 20% over
some period, then you would expect the stock with a beta of 1.1 to
be up 22% over the same period. Conversely if the market were down 20%, you would expect that
stock to be down 22%. Suppose Apple has a beta of 1.1. Suppose Microsoft has a beta 0.96. What do we know? The capital asset pricing model or
CAPM equation shown here asserts that a stock's expected excess return
is purely a function of its beta. Times the expected Market risk premium, which is equal to the expected return on
the market minus the risk free return. According to the estimates of beta based
on the most recent 3 months of data, Apple is 14.6% riskier than Microsoft. Why? It's beta is 1.1 compared
to 0.96 from Microsoft. When you form a pair, you will not buy
the same amounts of Apple and Microsoft. Instead, you will trade an amount
that leaves you beta neutral. The equation is simple. The beta of Apple times
the market value of Apple should equal the beta of Microsoft
times the market value of Microsoft. Recall that the market value is simply
price times quantity or P times Q. Suppose Microsoft is 135 and Apple is 200. You wish to sell short
a thousand shares of Microsoft. How many shares of Apple
do you need to buy? From the equation we see the beta
of Apple, times price of Apple, times quantity of Apple,
must be equal to beta of Microsoft times price of Microsoft,
times number of shares of Microsoft. So you need to buy 589 shares of Apple. We can check the market
value of each side. The market value of Apple
is 117,800 with a beta 1.1. The adjusted value of
the Apple side is 129,580. The market value of Microsoft
is 135,000 with a beta 0.96. The adjusted value of
the Microsoft side is 129,600. Within rounding error,
we are beta neutral. We have no problem finding the prices
calculating the betas or determining the relative amounts of stock to buy and
sell to put on a pair of straight. The real difficulty you will face
is choosing the stocks themselves. How do you decide if two stocks
are good candidates for pairs trading. This will be the topic
of the next session.