In this session, we will outline strategies for picking pairs. You will use
correlation to select pair candidates within
an industry sector. You will also create a
hierarchical clustering of stocks in the sector using
their daily return matrix. Lastly, you will
create a scree plot of the principal components
of the sector stocks. Picking pair seems simple. The best sets of pairs have some relationship between them. One of the easiest
ways to describe the relationship is to
look for correlation. Correlation measures one type of dependency, linear dependency. There are other more complicated
types of dependencies. One of these is cointegration, we'll discuss that later. Here, let's focus on correlation. Ideally the stocks would
have a negative correlation. You can think of
negative correlation as opposing movements, when one increases
the other decreases. You're already bullish on one stock and bearish
on the other. A true negative
correlation will get you profitable on both
sides of the trade. But that only happens if
you get the sides right. If you went long a security that actually dropped in price, you'd lose money on
that as well as on the short security that increased in price, direction matters. To illustrate, let's pick a company on which
we are bearish. Again, we choose Microsoft. For the record, we're not
actually bearish on Microsoft. You sell short Microsoft. In the real world,
it is unusual to find negatively
correlated stocks. Most stocks have
positive correlation with each other and
with the market. You do find some stocks
that are virtually uncorrelated though.
How do you start? One way to pick
pairs is to select two companies and track
their movements over time. One problem with this is
that the relationship may change over time and your
pair becomes outdated. We're going to take a
different approach. We will allow the pairs
to change over time. How do you start? You will look for correlations between stocks within a group. One such group or
the stocks held by a sector exchange
traded fund or ETF. The S&P 500 is divided
into 11 sectors. You can get exposure
to an entire sector by buying exchange
traded fund or ETF, each fund holds a
weighted amount of shares in members of a sector. For example, XLK is a sector fund dedicated
to technology. Its largest holdings
include Microsoft, Apple, Intel, Cisco, and Adobe. The securities are held in proportion to their market cap. Currently Microsoft
and Apple account for more than 38 percent
of XLK market cap. A sector ETF is a good
place for you to start looking for good pair
candidates. Here's why. When you examine an industry, you understand the
different types of businesses, consider
technology companies. Some companies
specialize in software, others focus on hardware, some build semiconductors, other developed
communications equipment. A third of the sector manufacture more general electronics. There are also companies that essentially provide IT services. Before we jump into some
machine learning techniques, it helps you to
understand these types. This will allow you to think in groups from which
you can form pairs. Let's quantify the
universe of stocks using the daily returns matrix. Suppose you collect
daily returns from the companies in the XLK ETF, each row represents
a trading day, each column represents one
of the 68 stocks in the SLK. In a given cell you have a single stocks returned
for a particular day. Let's say that you collect and cleanse a year's worth of data.